---
layout: post
title:      "And Here We Go"
date:       2018-04-07 00:24:20 +0000
permalink:  and_here_we_go
---


Why did I choose to pursue software engineering? Honestly it's a pretty long story at this point.I've always had an interest in computers to some degree. For example, I've always loved video games, being a denizen of the internet through forums, building my own PC's, and always being my family's go-to guy to diagnose computer problems. The main things that kept me from learning about computer programming earlier was that my schools were small so I was never offered any courses and that I didn't really have any relatives or acquantances that knew anything at all about computers. 

My circumstances led to me pursuing a biology degree for the simple fact that I was best at biology during high school. As I approached graduation, I really didn't know what I wanted to do with my life. One weakness I had was that I always assumed that life would roll along as long as I did what my teachers spoon-fed me like how things worked in high school. In college, I didn't ask enough questions about which career options I'd be able to pursue or even about which communities I could connect to in order to grow past what my classes were teaching me about my subject of choice. 

The fact that I had to finish up a senior honors project after I'd walked led me to working with my uncle's goose control company so that I could more easily fit in my lab sessions. I really enjoyed the job; it kept me outside, kept me in decent shape, and had more flexible hours than average. Even though the honors project had a lot of pitfalls along the way, I eventually completed it and presented it at a symposium.

This is where things got pretty tricky. My dad contracted cancer a few weeks after I had presented and I was thinking about applying for jobs that would use my major. My whole family spent the next year and a half doing our best to support him in his fight with cancer even if it meant I stayed at my current job. Eventually, he lost. Without life insurance, my family's finances were thrown into disarray since my Mom had been a homemaker.

I had been thinking about and toying with computer programming on MOOC's to little success and had also been hearing a lot of good things about coding bootcamps, but my father's death solidified my resolve. I couldn't command anywhere near the salary that my Dad had as second-in-command at the family goose control company, and my mother hadn't had a job in 25 years so I started looking at various coding bootcamps in order to learn valuable skills. I decided on the Flatiron school for a variety of reasons. I liked the pricing situation that let me pay monthly instead of just a lump sum. I liked that I was able to join the online program so that I could still keep working to support my family as much as I could. I also thought that it would be nice to be able to go at my own pace. 

Things started out well, and I loved so many aspects of coding. I loved solving the problems and finally having the test return green. I loved the idea that I would be studying a skill that requried me to be somewhat artistic and also required me to be logically minded. It melded the artistic side of me that led to me sketching throughout highschool but also allowed me to exercise the side of me that loved my science classes and solving math problems. I loved that coding was at least a seeming meritocracy rather than having to throw countless thousands of dollars at a master's or doctorate to be hired.

Eventually, I found a few weaknesses in myself. I learned that my panicked finacial reason for coding was coming to an end. I was able to increase my salary at my current job by working an extra day of the week. In addition, my mom did some amazing work in finding 2 jobs to split to make 40 hours and in selling our log cabin and downsizing into a townhouse. It wasn't Doomsday anymore. We weren't rich, but we were living fairly comfortably as long as we watched a budget. A part of my drive left since I didn't have to provide anymore. My second weakness I would have already known if I had been honest with myself. Though I was able to complete college fairly well, I had always done my best in high school when I had a pretty strict set of rules guiding me along. Taking a class that I could do at my own pace was a challenge to myself that I thought I could overcome easily, but it hasn't been. One part of me still loves the freedom such a program offers, but there is part of me that wonders how things would have gone if I had just ponied up all the money and went off the grid for 3 months. My final weakness was that I had a self-image of myself as one of the smartest/best. I went to really small schools so the perception might not have been completely earned, but I was always somewhere near the top. With coding I was starting late. I couldn't be like the teenage whiz kids that just go straight to amazing jobs. I also was simultaneously inspired and beaten down by listening to Codenewbie and Learn to Code with Me podcasts. The guests mostly had similar stories to mine, but their insane work ethic was something I didn't feel I could match. The one guy was working a full time job so well that he was getting regular promotions, getting an MBA, and learning to code all at the same time. He slept 4 or so hours a night and was still able to function. I need naps if I dip too much below 7 hours a night. I had always worked alone and with clear prior training, so I felt lost when it came to projects. I was also afraid that the project wouldn't turn out satisfacorily. All these compounded insecurities led to me dropping coding for fear that I coudln't live up to my own expectations.

Here I am today. I 've spent a good amount of time working through a lot of the baggage I've earned till now. I'll try my best, but I don't need to be some rockstar coder or anyone famous to hold down a decent job. I'll participate in as many groups as I can, whether that's in Learn.co or at a meetup or coworking space. I don't need to complete a project insanely fast for it to count. I've learned that the only way I can live life proudly is to try to improve each day one step at a time. I'm not quite 30 yet so I probaly have my current lifetime or more ahead of me.

I've always been afraid of writing this blog. There was something really final about it. If I didn't write it, I could start up the curriculum and fade away only to restart it a little bit down the line. This blog is me putting myself out there to the world. I'm Caleb Knox, and, however long it takes, I'm going to crawl and scratch my way into the tech community.





